README.md, before:

<!-- TODO: REMOVE BLOCK AFTER READING README -->
> [!CAUTION]
> This repository either is the template for new microservices or this
> repository has been generated from the template repository.

<div align="center">
<img height="150px" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wisdom-oss/brand/main/svg/standalone_color.svg">

<!-- TODO: Change Information here -->

<h1>Microservice Template/Example</h1>
<h3>service-example</h3>
<p>📐 A minimal working example for microservices in the WISdoM Architecture</p>

<!-- TODO: Change URL here to point to correct repository -->
<img src="https://img.shields.io/github/go-mod/go-version/wisdom-oss/microservice-template?style=for-the-badge" alt="Go Lang Version"/>
<a href="openapi.yaml">
<img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Schema%20Version-3.0.0-6BA539?style=for-the-badge&logo=OpenAPI%20Initiative" alt="Open
API Schema Version"/></a>
</div>

<!-- TODO: Replace README.md contents with correct description -->

This repository contains a template for new microservices inside the WISdoM
architecture.
It already handles the connection to the database using the `internal/db` 
package and the included `init` function in that package.
To start writing a new microservice you only need to create the new routes in
the `routes` directory and add them to the [`gin-gonic/gin`] router used in
the project.

[`gin-gonic/gin`]: https://github.com/gin-gonic/gin

## Using the database
As the database is automatically connected, you don't need to handle this by
yourself.
To use the database in your code either request a single connection from the
connection pool (`db.Pool.Acquire`) or pass the pool into a supported function
(_recommended_)

Furthermore, all queries stored in the `resources` folder are embedded into
the built executable and available in the `db.Queries` object, which is a
[`qustavo/dotsql`] `DotSql` object which allows recalling queries by their name.

[`qustavo/dotsql`]: https://github.com/qustavo/dotsql

## Returning errors to End-Users
Since the router already comes pre-configured with some error handling
middleware, sending errors generated by other functions back to an end-user is 
easy. 
Just call `c.Abort()` and `c.Error()` in your handler and return from the 
function.
The end-user will automatically receive a [RFC 9457]-compliant error message
generated from your output.
The following example shows how to output an error and what the expected output
should look like on the end-users side:

```go
package routes

import "github.com/gin-gonic/gin"

func BasicHandler(c *gin.Context) {
	// ... your other code which generated an error
	if err != nil {
		c.Abort()
		_ = c.Error(err)
		return
	}

}

```

```
HTTP/1.1 500 Internal Server Error
Content-Type: application/problem+json; charset=utf-8
X-Request-Id: 6215ec23-45f9-4182-b848-64a969e7d0c5
Content-Length: 319

[
  {
    "type": "https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9110#section-15.6.1",
    "status": 500,
    "title": "Internal Server Error",
    "detail": "The service encountered an internal error during the handling of your request",
    "instance": "tag:xxxxxxxx,2024-10-15:InternalServerError:1728985891",
    "errors": [
      "error"
    ],
    "host": "xxxxxxxx"
  }
]
```

If you want to send errors that are generated by your code and are predictable
(for example, an object isn't found) should create a `types.ServiceError` for
the error message and send that one back using `.Emit()` on the created
`ServiceError` object

```go
package routes

import (
	"net/http"

	"github.com/gin-gonic/gin"
	"github.com/wisdom-oss/common-go/v2/types"
)

var ObjectNotFoundError types.ServiceError = types.ServiceError{
	Type:   "https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9110.html#section-15.5.5",
	Status: http.StatusNotFound,
	Title:  "Object Not Found",
	Detail: "The requested object does not exist. Please check the object id",
}

func BasicHandler(c *gin.Context) {
	// ... your other code possibly populating the object
	if object == nil {
		c.Abort()
		ObjectNotFoundError.Emit(c)
		return
	}
}

```
```
HTTP/1.1 404 Not Found
Content-Type: application/problem+json; charset=utf-8
X-Request-Id: 82f0e83e-f485-4aca-8706-d0d57ee1585d
Content-Length: 317

{
  "type": "https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9110.html#section-15.5.5",
  "status": 404,
  "title": "Object Not Found",
  "detail": "The requested object does not exist. Please check the object id",
  "instance": "tag:xxxxxxxx,2024-10-15:ObjectNotFound:1728986473",
  "host": "xxxxxxxx"
}
```

[RFC 9457]: https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9457.html

Commit message:

added information about the authorization and about using the database

README.md, after:

<!-- TODO: REMOVE BLOCK AFTER READING README -->
> [!CAUTION]
> This repository either is the template for new microservices or this
> repository has been generated from the template repository.

<div align="center">
<img height="150px" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wisdom-oss/brand/main/svg/standalone_color.svg">

<!-- TODO: Change Information here -->

<h1>Microservice Template/Example</h1>
<h3>service-example</h3>
<p>📐 A minimal working example for microservices in the WISdoM Architecture</p>

<!-- TODO: Change URL here to point to correct repository -->
<img src="https://img.shields.io/github/go-mod/go-version/wisdom-oss/microservice-template?style=for-the-badge" alt="Go Lang Version"/>
<a href="openapi.yaml">
<img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Schema%20Version-3.0.0-6BA539?style=for-the-badge&logo=OpenAPI%20Initiative" alt="Open
API Schema Version"/></a>
</div>

<!-- TODO: Replace README.md contents with correct description -->

This repository contains a template for new microservices inside the WISdoM
architecture.
It already handles the connection to the database using the `internal/db` 
package and the included `init` function in that package.
To start writing a new microservice you only need to create the new routes in
the `routes` directory and add them to the [`gin-gonic/gin`] router used in
the project.

[`gin-gonic/gin`]: https://github.com/gin-gonic/gin

## Authorization
The microservice automatically disables the authorization in local development
scenarios to reduce the hassle with needing a living access token for each
request.
However, the authorization is enabled when building the Docker Image as it
uses the `docker` build tag which triggers the inclusion of
`internal/config/docker.go` and the exclusion of `internal/config/debug.go` into
the binary.

> [!TIP]
> To test the authorization you need to manually add the build tag to your build
> command `-tags docker` and populate the `OIDC_AUTHORITY` environment variable
> which should contain the issuer of the access tokens used in your WISdoM
> platform, otherwise the startup of the microservice will fail or you may be
> unable to access the microservice

## Using the database
> [!IMPORTANT]
> You need to set the following environment variables for a successful 
> connection to the database:
>   - `PGUSER`
>   - `PGPASSWORD`
>   - `PGHOST`
>   - `PGDATABASE`
> and optionally the following variables
>   - `PGPORT`

As the database is automatically connected, you don't need to handle this by
yourself.
To use the database in your code either request a single connection from the
connection pool (`db.Pool.Acquire`) or pass the pool into a supported function
(_recommended_)

Furthermore, all queries stored in the `resources` folder are embedded into
the built executable and available in the `db.Queries` object, which is a
[`qustavo/dotsql`] `DotSql` object which allows recalling queries by their name.

[`qustavo/dotsql`]: https://github.com/qustavo/dotsql

## Returning errors to End-Users
Since the router already comes pre-configured with some error handling
middleware, sending errors generated by other functions back to an end-user is 
easy. 
Just call `c.Abort()` and `c.Error()` in your handler and return from the 
function.
The end-user will automatically receive a [RFC 9457]-compliant error message
generated from your output.
The following example shows how to output an error and what the expected output
should look like on the end-users side:

```go
package routes

import "github.com/gin-gonic/gin"

func BasicHandler(c *gin.Context) {
	// ... your other code which generated an error
	if err != nil {
		c.Abort()
		_ = c.Error(err)
		return
	}

}

```

```
HTTP/1.1 500 Internal Server Error
Content-Type: application/problem+json; charset=utf-8
X-Request-Id: 6215ec23-45f9-4182-b848-64a969e7d0c5
Content-Length: 319

[
  {
    "type": "https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9110#section-15.6.1",
    "status": 500,
    "title": "Internal Server Error",
    "detail": "The service encountered an internal error during the handling of your request",
    "instance": "tag:xxxxxxxx,2024-10-15:InternalServerError:1728985891",
    "errors": [
      "error"
    ],
    "host": "xxxxxxxx"
  }
]
```

If you want to send errors that are generated by your code and are predictable
(for example, an object isn't found) should create a `types.ServiceError` for
the error message and send that one back using `.Emit()` on the created
`ServiceError` object

```go
package routes

import (
	"net/http"

	"github.com/gin-gonic/gin"
	"github.com/wisdom-oss/common-go/v2/types"
)

var ObjectNotFoundError types.ServiceError = types.ServiceError{
	Type:   "https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9110.html#section-15.5.5",
	Status: http.StatusNotFound,
	Title:  "Object Not Found",
	Detail: "The requested object does not exist. Please check the object id",
}

func BasicHandler(c *gin.Context) {
	// ... your other code possibly populating the object
	if object == nil {
		c.Abort()
		ObjectNotFoundError.Emit(c)
		return
	}
}

```
```
HTTP/1.1 404 Not Found
Content-Type: application/problem+json; charset=utf-8
X-Request-Id: 82f0e83e-f485-4aca-8706-d0d57ee1585d
Content-Length: 317

{
  "type": "https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9110.html#section-15.5.5",
  "status": 404,
  "title": "Object Not Found",
  "detail": "The requested object does not exist. Please check the object id",
  "instance": "tag:xxxxxxxx,2024-10-15:ObjectNotFound:1728986473",
  "host": "xxxxxxxx"
}
```

[RFC 9457]: https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9457.html
